notes/Initiatives.by-me.reading-group-postgres-14-internals.md, before:

---
id: book-club
title: Book Club - PostgreSQL 14 Internals
desc: ''
updated: 1717942665347
created: 1706541552953
---

![](/assets/images/postgresql-14-internals.png)

We are going to cover <a href="https://postgrespro.com/community/books/internals" target="_blank">PostgreSQL 14 Internals</a> book by Egor Rogov.

We will read **one chapter a week** and discuss over a Google Group. Your email will be public if you post, but otherwise it will not be visible to anyone.

## Sign up

**If you'd like to join the group, please fill this <a href="https://forms.gle/evaBqMwLX6pnw8qm6" target="_blank">Google form</a>, or reach out to me on <a href="https://twitter.com/AkJn99" target="_blank">Twitter</a>.**

Please spread the word to anyone who might be interested! :)

Also, you don't need to be an expert to join along. We are all in it to learn together as a community!

## Medium of discussion

All discussions will be done over text emails. We don't plan on having any Zoom or Google Meet calls. This allows people to read at their own pace asynchronously, and still be able to participate in the discussion.

## How to get the book

The PDF version of the book is available for free <a href="https://edu.postgrespro.com/postgresql_internals-14_en.pdf" target="_blank">here</a>. You can also order a printed copy from <a href="https://postgrespro.com/community/books/internals" target="_blank">here</a>.

## Weekly Chapter Leaders

We will have one person lead the discussion each week. They will send out an email by Saturday of that respective week recapping the chapter and sharing their thoughts. It doesn't have to be exhaustive, could even be a couple of paragraphs - the main intent is to get the discussion going and give others a starting point to chime in.

I'd love to see people interested in volunteering to lead a chapter. But if there aren't any leaders for a week, I'll take up this responsibility and get the discussion going.

To the leaders: You don't have to worry about being an expert, or about what to say. It's a community discussion, and we're all in it to learn from each other! :)

## Discussion Schedule

<table>
  <thead>
    <tr>
        <td><b>Date</b></td>
        <td><b>Leader</b></td>
        <td><b>Chapter</b></td>
        <td><b>Title</b></td>
    </tr>
  </thead>
  <tbody>
    <tr><td>March 9th, 2024</td><td>Akshat Jain</td><td>1</td><td>Introduction</td></tr>
    <tr><th colspan="4">Part I Isolation and MVCC</th></tr>
    <tr><td>March 16th, 2024</td><td>Aman Vats</td><td>2</td><td>Isolation</td></tr>
    <tr><td>March 23rd, 2024</td><td>Abhijith M</td><td>3</td><td>Pages and Tuples</td></tr>
    <tr><td>March 30th, 2024</td><td>Pankaj Vatwani</td><td>4</td><td>Snapshots</td></tr>
    <tr><td>April 6th, 2024</td><td>Akshat Jaimini</td><td>5</td><td>Page Pruning and HOT Updates</td></tr>
    <tr><td>April 13th, 2024</td><td>Varun Upadhyay</td><td>6</td><td>Vacuum and Autovacuum</td></tr>
    <tr><td>April 20th, 2024</td><td>Akshat Jain</td><td>7</td><td>Freezing</td></tr>
    <tr><td>April 27th, 2024</td><td>Ritwiz Sinha</td><td>8</td><td>Rebuilding Tables and Indexes</td></tr>
    <tr><th colspan="4">Part II Buffer Cache and WAL</th></tr>
    <tr><td>May 4th, 2024</td><td>Maneesh Chauhan</td><td>9</td><td>Buffer Cache</td></tr>
    <tr><td>May 11th, 2024</td><td>Garren Smith</td><td>10</td><td>Write-Ahead Log</td></tr>
    <tr><td>May 18th, 2024</td><td>Pratyush Singhal</td><td>11</td><td>WAL Modes</td></tr>
    <tr><th colspan="4">Part III Locks</th></tr>
    <tr><td>May 25th, 2024</td><td>Alex O</td><td>12</td><td>Relation-Level Locks</td></tr>
    <tr><td>June 1st, 2024</td><td>Ritwiz Sinha</td><td>13</td><td>Row-Level Locks</td></tr>
    <tr><td>June 8th, 2024</td><td>Ritwiz Sinha</td><td>14</td><td>Miscellaneous Locks</td></tr>
    <tr><td>June 15th, 2024</td><td>Sambitesh Dash</td><td>15</td><td>Locks on Memory Structures</td></tr>
    <tr><th colspan="4">Part IV Query Execution</th></tr>
    <tr><td>June 22nd, 2024</td><td>Hemant Singh</td><td>16</td><td>Query Execution Stages</td></tr>
    <tr><td>June 29th, 2024</td><td>Raghunath Dhandapani</td><td>17</td><td>Statistics</td></tr>
    <tr><td>July 6th, 2024</td><td>Raghunath Dhandapani</td><td>18</td><td>Table Access Methods</td></tr>
    <tr><td>July 13th, 2024</td><td>Bhaskar Metiya</td><td>19</td><td>Index Access Methods</td></tr>
    <tr><td>July 20th, 2024</td><td>Vaibhav Kurhe</td><td>20</td><td>Index Scans</td></tr>
    <tr><td>July 27th, 2024</td><td>Lasse Jacobs</td><td>21</td><td>Nested Loop</td></tr>
    <tr><td>August 3rd, 2024</td><td>Apoorv Singh</td><td>22</td><td>Hashing</td></tr>
    <tr><td>August 10th, 2024</td><td>Raghunath Dhandapani</td><td>23</td><td>Sorting and Merging</td></tr>
    <tr><th colspan="4">Part V Types of Indexes</th></tr>
    <tr><td>August 17th, 2024</td><td>Sameer Raj</td><td>24</td><td>Hash</td></tr>
    <tr><td>August 24th, 2024</td><td>Achyuth Reddy</td><td>25</td><td>B-tree</td></tr>
    <tr><td>August 31st, 2024</td><td>Naman Modi</td><td>26</td><td>GiST</td></tr>
    <tr><td>September 7th, 2024</td><td>Lasse Jacobs</td><td>27</td><td>SP-GiST</td></tr>
    <tr><td>September 14th, 2024</td><td>Sambitesh Dash</td><td>28</td><td>GIN</td></tr>
    <tr><td>September 21st, 2024</td><td>Diego</td><td>29</td><td>BRIN</td></tr>
  </tbody>
</table>

Commit message:

Update that the book club is over

notes/Initiatives.by-me.reading-group-postgres-14-internals.md, after:

---
id: book-club
title: Book Club - PostgreSQL 14 Internals
desc: ''
updated: 1728074726837
created: 1706541552953
---

## Update: September 22nd, 2024

The book club is now over. If you'd like to get access to the weekly discussion emails, feel free to fill out the Google form. I'll check it periodically and send out Google Group invites. You would have access to all the past discussion emails on Google Groups.

![](/assets/images/postgresql-14-internals.png)

We are going to cover <a href="https://postgrespro.com/community/books/internals" target="_blank">PostgreSQL 14 Internals</a> book by Egor Rogov.

We will read **one chapter a week** and discuss over a Google Group. Your email will be public if you post, but otherwise it will not be visible to anyone.

## Sign up

**If you'd like to join the group, please fill this <a href="https://forms.gle/evaBqMwLX6pnw8qm6" target="_blank">Google form</a>, or reach out to me on <a href="https://twitter.com/AkJn99" target="_blank">Twitter</a>.**

Please spread the word to anyone who might be interested! :)

Also, you don't need to be an expert to join along. We are all in it to learn together as a community!

## Medium of discussion

All discussions will be done over text emails. We don't plan on having any Zoom or Google Meet calls. This allows people to read at their own pace asynchronously, and still be able to participate in the discussion.

## How to get the book

The PDF version of the book is available for free <a href="https://edu.postgrespro.com/postgresql_internals-14_en.pdf" target="_blank">here</a>. You can also order a printed copy from <a href="https://postgrespro.com/community/books/internals" target="_blank">here</a>.

## Weekly Chapter Leaders

We will have one person lead the discussion each week. They will send out an email by Saturday of that respective week recapping the chapter and sharing their thoughts. It doesn't have to be exhaustive, could even be a couple of paragraphs - the main intent is to get the discussion going and give others a starting point to chime in.

I'd love to see people interested in volunteering to lead a chapter. But if there aren't any leaders for a week, I'll take up this responsibility and get the discussion going.

To the leaders: You don't have to worry about being an expert, or about what to say. It's a community discussion, and we're all in it to learn from each other! :)

## Discussion Schedule

<table>
  <thead>
    <tr>
        <td><b>Date</b></td>
        <td><b>Leader</b></td>
        <td><b>Chapter</b></td>
        <td><b>Title</b></td>
    </tr>
  </thead>
  <tbody>
    <tr><td>March 9th, 2024</td><td>Akshat Jain</td><td>1</td><td>Introduction</td></tr>
    <tr><th colspan="4">Part I Isolation and MVCC</th></tr>
    <tr><td>March 16th, 2024</td><td>Aman Vats</td><td>2</td><td>Isolation</td></tr>
    <tr><td>March 23rd, 2024</td><td>Abhijith M</td><td>3</td><td>Pages and Tuples</td></tr>
    <tr><td>March 30th, 2024</td><td>Pankaj Vatwani</td><td>4</td><td>Snapshots</td></tr>
    <tr><td>April 6th, 2024</td><td>Akshat Jaimini</td><td>5</td><td>Page Pruning and HOT Updates</td></tr>
    <tr><td>April 13th, 2024</td><td>Varun Upadhyay</td><td>6</td><td>Vacuum and Autovacuum</td></tr>
    <tr><td>April 20th, 2024</td><td>Akshat Jain</td><td>7</td><td>Freezing</td></tr>
    <tr><td>April 27th, 2024</td><td>Ritwiz Sinha</td><td>8</td><td>Rebuilding Tables and Indexes</td></tr>
    <tr><th colspan="4">Part II Buffer Cache and WAL</th></tr>
    <tr><td>May 4th, 2024</td><td>Maneesh Chauhan</td><td>9</td><td>Buffer Cache</td></tr>
    <tr><td>May 11th, 2024</td><td>Garren Smith</td><td>10</td><td>Write-Ahead Log</td></tr>
    <tr><td>May 18th, 2024</td><td>Pratyush Singhal</td><td>11</td><td>WAL Modes</td></tr>
    <tr><th colspan="4">Part III Locks</th></tr>
    <tr><td>May 25th, 2024</td><td>Alex O</td><td>12</td><td>Relation-Level Locks</td></tr>
    <tr><td>June 1st, 2024</td><td>Ritwiz Sinha</td><td>13</td><td>Row-Level Locks</td></tr>
    <tr><td>June 8th, 2024</td><td>Ritwiz Sinha</td><td>14</td><td>Miscellaneous Locks</td></tr>
    <tr><td>June 15th, 2024</td><td>Sambitesh Dash</td><td>15</td><td>Locks on Memory Structures</td></tr>
    <tr><th colspan="4">Part IV Query Execution</th></tr>
    <tr><td>June 22nd, 2024</td><td>Hemant Singh</td><td>16</td><td>Query Execution Stages</td></tr>
    <tr><td>June 29th, 2024</td><td>Raghunath Dhandapani</td><td>17</td><td>Statistics</td></tr>
    <tr><td>July 6th, 2024</td><td>Raghunath Dhandapani</td><td>18</td><td>Table Access Methods</td></tr>
    <tr><td>July 13th, 2024</td><td>Bhaskar Metiya</td><td>19</td><td>Index Access Methods</td></tr>
    <tr><td>July 20th, 2024</td><td>Vaibhav Kurhe</td><td>20</td><td>Index Scans</td></tr>
    <tr><td>July 27th, 2024</td><td>Lasse Jacobs</td><td>21</td><td>Nested Loop</td></tr>
    <tr><td>August 3rd, 2024</td><td>Apoorv Singh</td><td>22</td><td>Hashing</td></tr>
    <tr><td>August 10th, 2024</td><td>Raghunath Dhandapani</td><td>23</td><td>Sorting and Merging</td></tr>
    <tr><th colspan="4">Part V Types of Indexes</th></tr>
    <tr><td>August 17th, 2024</td><td>Sameer Raj</td><td>24</td><td>Hash</td></tr>
    <tr><td>August 24th, 2024</td><td>Achyuth Reddy</td><td>25</td><td>B-tree</td></tr>
    <tr><td>August 31st, 2024</td><td>Naman Modi</td><td>26</td><td>GiST</td></tr>
    <tr><td>September 7th, 2024</td><td>Lasse Jacobs</td><td>27</td><td>SP-GiST</td></tr>
    <tr><td>September 14th, 2024</td><td>Sambitesh Dash</td><td>28</td><td>GIN</td></tr>
    <tr><td>September 21st, 2024</td><td>Diego</td><td>29</td><td>BRIN</td></tr>
  </tbody>
</table>
